The President:
Each week, I've spoken with you
about the challenges we face as
a nation and the path we
must take to meet them.
And the truth is, over
the past ten months,
I've often had to report
distressing news during what has
been a difficult
time for our country.
But today, I am pleased to
offer some better news that --
while not a cause
for celebration --
is certainly reason to believe
that we are moving in the right direction.
On Thursday, we received a
report on our Gross Domestic
Product, or GDP.
This is an important measure
of our economy as a whole,
one that tells us how much
we are producing and how much
businesses and
families are earning.
We learned that the economy grew
for the first time in more than
a year and faster than at any
point in the previous two years.
So while we have a long way
to go before we return to
prosperity, and there will
undoubtedly be ups and downs
along the road, it's also true
that we've come a long way.
It's easy to forget that it was
only several months ago that the
economy was shrinking rapidly
and many economists feared
another Great Depression.
Now, economic growth is no
substitute for job growth.
And we will likely see further
job losses in the coming days,
a fact that's both
troubling for our economy and
heartbreaking for the men
and women who suddenly find
themselves out of work.
But we will not create the jobs
we need unless the economy is
growing; that's why this
GDP report is a good sign.
And we can see clearly now that
the steps my administration is
taking are making a difference,
blunting the worst of this
recession and helping to
bring about its conclusion.
We've acted aggressively to
jumpstart credit for families
and businesses, including
small businesses,
which have seen an
increase in lending of 73%.
We've taken steps to stem
the tide of foreclosures,
modifying mortgages to help
hundreds of thousands of
responsible homeowners keep
their homes and help millions
more sustain the
value in their homes.
And the Recovery Act is spurring
demand through a tax cut for 95%
of working families, and through
assistance for seniors and those
who've lost jobs -- which not only helps folks hit hardest by
the downturn, but also encourages the consumer spending
that will help turn
the economy around.
Finally, the Recovery Act is
saving and creating jobs all
across the country.
Just this week, we reached
an important milestone.
Based on reports coming
in from across America --
as shovels break ground, as
needed public servants are
rehired, and as
factories whir to life --
it is clear that the Recovery
Act has now created and saved
more than one million jobs.
That's more than a million
people who might otherwise be
out of work today -- folks who can wake up each day knowing
that they'll be able to provide for themselves and for their families.
We've saved jobs by closing
state budget shortfalls to
prevent the layoffs of hundreds
of thousands of police officers,
firefighters, and teachers who
are today on the beat, on call,
and in the classrooms
because of the Recovery Act.
And we've also created hundreds
of thousands of jobs through the
largest investment in our
roads since the building of the
interstate highway system, and through the largest investment
in education, medical research,
and clean energy in history.
These investments aren't just
helping us recover in the short
term, they're helping to lay
a new foundation for lasting
prosperity in the long term -- and they're giving hardworking,
middle-class Americans the chance to succeed and raise a family.
Because the investments we've
made and the steps we've taken,
it's easier for middle-class
families to send their kids to
college and get the training and
skills they need to compete in a
global economy.
We're making it easier for these
families to save for retirement.
And in areas like clean energy,
we're creating the jobs of the
future -- jobs that pay
well and can't be outsourced.
In fact, just this week,
I traveled to Arcadia,
Florida to announce the largest
set of clean energy projects
through the Recovery Act so
far: one hundred grants for
businesses, utilities,
manufacturers,
cities and other partners across
the country to put thousands of
people to work modernizing
our electric grid --
the system that provides power
to our homes and businesses --
so that it wastes less energy,
helps integrate renewables like
wind and solar, and
saves consumers money.
And that's just one example.
So, we have made progress.
At the same time, I want to
emphasize that there's still
plenty of progress to be made.
For we know that positive news
for the economy as a whole means
little if you've lost your
job and can't find another,
if you can't afford health
care or the mortgage,
if you do not see in your own
life the improvement we're
seeing in these
economic statistics.
And positive news today doesn't
mean there won't be difficult
days ahead.
As I've said many times, it took
years to dig our way into the
crisis we've faced.
It will take more than a few
months to dig our way out.
But make no mistake: that's
exactly what we will do.
For the economy we seek is one
where folks who need a job can
find one and incomes
are rising again.
The economy we seek is one where
small businesses can flourish
and entrepreneurs can get the
capital they need to plant new
seeds of growth.
The economy we seek is one
that's no longer based on maxed
out credits cards,
wild speculation,
and the old cycles
of boom or bust --
but rather one that is
built on a solid foundation,
supporting growth
that's strong, sustained,
and broadly shared by middle
class families across America.
That's what we're working
toward every single day.
And we will not stop
until we get there.
Thanks.
And Happy Halloween.